So with that error solved
the application is running again.
Now I can start adding goals again
for example, Master React.
And also let's say,
Check out other courses on React.
Now I added these goals
and now I actually also have
another error in this application.
Another error, which won't lead
to a compilation error here
and which won't show up here
on the main screen though.
If I delete my newly added
Check out other courses on React goal,
you see it's there.
Actually the other goal I added was deleted
even though I clearly clicked on
the Checkout other courses on React goal.
So since that worked before
in the other course modules
there has to be something in my code
that is causing this error.
So what could be the problem here?
I'm not getting an error message here on the screen
not here in the terminal either.
So how can we now solve such error?
Well, there are a couple of things you can do.
A couple of steps that are worth a try.
Let's first of all go to the place
where we have that deletion logic.
We got our course goal list
and there we have on the lead
where we trigger props on the lead item.
If you go into a course goal
item we see on the lead
is in the end triggered when we click on that.
I don't really see an error here
with our forwarding that ID in course goal list.
We just pass on that event in the end to
on the lead item, on the course goal list component.
So if you go to the app component
where this ultimately is being rendered,
we see that the delete item handler is executed
and there we get the goal ID
and we delete a goal.
Now a goal was deleted as we saw just the wrong one.
So did the leash logic in general seems to work,
but maybe the ID is wrong.
So maybe we should go to the place
where the IDs are generated and assigned.
And that's here in the add Goal Handler.
And here indeed, I changed something.
I set my ID to a hard-coded string.
Previously here I used math random
to derive a pseudo unique ID.
Now with the hard-coded string
I introduced a logical error here.
The error is that I assigned the same ID to all goals.
So therefore they're no longer distinguishable by ID.
And hence, if we click on a goal
the first goal that has the ID
which is found in the goals array, is deleted.
And that's always the first goal I ever added.
That's why not this goal was deleted
but the goal which I added before.
So that's a logical mistake
and I was able to narrow it down
by going through that complete chain of events.
Click on a goal, we triggered a deletion handler
and I had to look at all those steps
to narrow down the problem
to finally find this problem here.
And this is a perfectly fine way of trying to solve this.
Now here's another thing that could help you.
If I add goals again.
Check out other courses on React
and Master React.
If I do that
and I again click on the first goal
and the second one is deleted.
Let's now open up the developer tools here
And there, let's have a look at the console,
the JavaScript development and debugging console.
Here the browser gives us any
logging messages we added to our code
and also some warnings and errors
that are thrown by the library
which don't crash the whole application necessarily.
And here we see that we got a warning actually.
And we get that warning already when we add a goal.
The warning that I get here is in the end that
React encountered two children with the same key.
So two children with the same key
were found here with the key goal1.
And this is implicitly related to our deletion problem.
Now, again, we're not getting that
warning when I delete something.
We already get that warning when I add a new goal.
But this already tells us that
we have some error in our code.
Because if we got two children with the same ID,
with the same key in the end,
then we seem to have an error in our code
where we assigned the same ID multiple times,
which indeed is the problem we have.
And React of course also tells you
where the problem occurs.
This here is an error related to our list
because that key concept as learned
in the lists and conditional module is related to lists.
But it is related to the list here
in the unordered list in the
core skill list component, line eight.
So again, you get a pretty clear idea
of where this warning in this case is coming from,
and you can then have a look at the code there
and find out why that problem occurs.
And if you then work your way back
to the place where goals are added
which is the place where the IDs are added
which in turn are the things that are used as keys here
we do use the goal ID as a key.
Well then you would be able to come back
to the place where the hard-coded goal1 ID is.
Because we even see that goal1
is the problem here in the warning.
So that's another way how you
might've solved this problem.
But you can also use another approach.
You can use the debugger built into the browser.
You can use break points.